EPICtm Pocket PIC Programmer


The EPIC Programmer is an inexpensive PIC microcontroller programmer
that will program 18 pin PICs with the new core.  These currently include the
PIC16C61, PIC16C62x, PIC16C71 and the PIC16C84.  It can be powered with two
9 volt batteries or an optional AC adapter.

The EPIC Programmer connects to any PC compatible parallel port and
includes an assembler and programming software.  It is available either
assembled or as a bare board.  If you purchased a bare board, please see the
parts list and assembly instructions on the included disk.

An optional adapter is available to program the 40 pin PIC16C64, PIC16C65, 
PIC16C74, and the 28 pin PIC16C62, PIC16C63 and PIC16C73.


Hook-up

Make sure that the EPIC programming socket is empty until the
programming software is executed.  Also be sure that the EPIC Programmer
is placed on an insulated surface to prevent the shorting out of traces on the
bottom of it.

Connect the EPIC Programmer to a PC compatible parallel printer port using
a 25 pin male to 25 pin female printer extension cable.  The EPIC
Programmer uses pins 2-6, 10, and 19-25.  A serial cable may not have all of
the necessary connections so be sure to use a printer extension cable.  A
suitable cable is available from us.

Make sure to connect the programmer to a parallel printer port. 
Connection to a serial port, which has a similar connector, may result in
damage to the port or to the programmer.

If you are powering the EPIC Programmer with the optional AC adapter,
plug it into the power connector on the programmer and then into a wall
outlet.  The AC adapter should output 12 volts AC at about 250ma.

If you are powering the EPIC Programmer with two 9 volt batteries, plug
each battery onto the battery snaps.  Connect the 2 pin shorting jumper to
the 2 pin "Batt ON" jumper.  It is a good idea to check the battery voltage
from time to time or if there seems to be difficulty in programming parts.

WARNING: Do not connect a battery across the center snaps.  Doing so
shorts out the battery and may cause it to explode.

The programmer should now be powered up and ready to program PICs.


     Note: one or both of the LEDs may be lit at this point.  It is no
     cause for alarm.  They both should go out when the EPIC
     programming software is run.  Do not insert or remove a PIC
     when either light is on.


Software Installation

Create a subdirectory on your hard drive called EPIC or a name of your
choosing by typing

     md epic

at the DOS prompt.  Copy all of the files from the included floppy disk into
the newly created subdirectory by typing

     xcopy a:*.* epic /s


Operation

The next task is simply to write your program and assemble it using the
PIC macro assembler, PM, on the included disk.  Instructions for the use of
PM are also on the disk.

Once your program assembles properly, it may be programmed into a PIC
using the EPIC Programmer software.  Start the EPIC Programmer software
by typing 'epic' in the directory you created and enter alt-o to open your
assembled object file.  Make sure the proper device type and device
characteristics are selected.

Insert a PIC into the EPIC Programmer programming socket and press alt-p 
to program it.  The end of the PIC with the notch, pin 1, should be away
from the battery connectors.  If the PIC is a 16C84 or another EEPROM part
and is not code protected, it is not necessary to erase it before programming.


NOTE: Be sure the Code Protect box is set to OFF before programming a
windowed JW part.
